# SEC Financial Data Analysis Project
### Background
This project analyzes SEC Financial data sourced from the SEC's [EDGAR](https://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch). I built this project in order to analyze different financial statement accounts over time in various industries and companies. I wanted to practice my data cleansing and organizing skills in Pandas by joining several different datasets, concatenating data from several time periods, renaming and removing columns, adding new fields, and visualizing the data using pivot tables. I learned a lot by having to troubleshoot when I got stuck, such as when my joins weren't working due to different data types. 
### Results
Unfortunately, it took me until I was finished joining and cleaning the data to realize that there were problems with the data that would restrict my ability to do the analyses I wanted. I imported my completed dataframe into Tableau and noticed that there seemed to be data missing from different accounts in different periods due to a change in the taxonomy used by the SEC to tag these accounts. This taught me the importance of checking the data in the beginning to make sure it will be sufficient to use to answer questions or visualize patterns and trends.
### Conclusion
Overall I am happy with this project because it was my first real attempt at applying the skills I have taught myself in Pandas and Numpy. This project also taught me valuable lessons about the importance of verifying your data before attempting to use it. Although I was not able to perform as much analysis as I would have liked, I was able to write code that shapes the data into a form that can hopefully be used for analysis in the future once the SEC standardizes their tagging process.
